Lightnings 
 
rom the tall arched window, close onto eighty span s above the ground, not far below the top of the 
White Tower, Elaida could see for miles beyond Ta r Va-lon, to the rolling plains and forests that 
bordered the broad River Erinin, running down from north and west before it divided around the white 
walls of the great island city. On the ground, long morning shadows must have been dappling the city, but from 
this prominence all seemed clear and bright. Not even th e fabled ""topless towers"" of Cair-hien had truly rivaled 
the White Tower. Certainly none of Tar Valon's lesser towe rs did, for all that men spoke far "" and wide of them 
and their vaulting sky-bridges. 
This high, an almost constant breeze lessened the unna tural heat gripping the world. The Feast of Lights 
past, snow shduld have covered the ground deep, yet the weather belonged in the depths of a hard summer. 
Another sign that the Last Battle approached and the Dark  One touched the world, if more were needed. Elaida 
did not let the heat touch her even when she desce nded, of course. The breeze was not why she had had her 
quarters moved up here, despite the inconvenience of so many stairs, to these simple rooms. 
Plain russet floor tiles and white marble walls decorated by a few tapestries could not compare with the 
grandeur of the Amyrlin's study and the rooms that went with it far below. She still used those rooms 
occasionally—they held associations w ith the power of the Amyrlin Seat in some minds—but she resided here, 
and worked here more often than not. For the view. No t of city or river or fo rests, though. Of what was 
beginning in the Tower grounds. 
Great diggings and foundations spread across what had been the Warders' practice yard, tall wooden 
cranes and stacks of cut marble and granite. Masons and laborers swarmed over the workings like ants, and 
endless streams of wagons trailed through the gates onto the Tower grounds, bringing more stone. To one side 
stood a wooden ""working model,"" as the masons called it,  big enough for men to enter crouching on their heels 
and see every detail, where every stone should go. Most  of the workmen could not read, after all—neither 
words nor mason's drawn plans. The ""working model"" was as large as some manor houses. 
When any king or queen had a palace, why should th e Amyrlin Seat be relegated to apartments little 
better than those of many ordinary sisters? Her pal ace would match the White Tower for splendor, and have a 
.great spire ten spans higher than the Tower itself. The blood had drained from the ch ief mason's face when he 
heard that. The Tower had been Ogier-built, with assistan ce from sisters using the Po wer. One look at Elaida's 
face, however, set Master Ler-man bowing and stammering th at of course all would be done as she wished. As 
if there had been any question. 
Her mouth tightened with exasperation. She had wa nted Ogien masons again, but the Ogier were 
confining themselves to their sledding for some reason. Her summons to the nearest, Sledding Jentoine, in the 
Black Hills, had been met with refusal. Polite, yet still re fusal, without explanation, even to the Amyrlin Seat. 
Ogier were reclusive at best. Or they might be withdraw ing from a world full of turmoil; Ogier stayed clear of 
human strife. 
Firmly Elaida dismissed the Ogier from her mind. Sh e prided herself on separating what could be from 
what could not. Ogier were a triviality. They had no pa rt in the world beyond the cities they had built so long 
ago and seldom visited now except to make repairs. 
The men below, crawling beetle-like over the building site, made her frown slightly. Construction went 
forward by inches. Ogier might be out of the question, yet perhaps the One Power could be used again. Few",3817,906,A Crown Of Swords
1,3,"sisters possessed real strength in. weaving Earth, but not  that much was required to reinforce stone, or bind 
stone to stone. Yes. In her mind, the palace stood finished, colonnaded walks and^ great domes shining with gilt 
and that one spire reaching to the heavens.... Her eyes ro se to the cloudless sky, to where the spire would peak, 
and she let out a long sigh. Yes. The orders would be issued today. 
The towering case clock in the room behind her chim ed Third Rise, and in the city gongs and bells 
pealed the hour, the sound faint here, so high above. W ith a smile, Elaida left the window, smoothing her red-
slashed dress of cream silk and adjusting the broad, striped stole of the Amyrlin Seat on her shoulders. 
On the ornately gilded clock, small figures of gol d and silver and enamel moved with the chimes. 
Horned and snouted Trollocs fled from a cloaked Aes Sedai on one level; on another a man representing a false 
Dragon tried to fend off silver lightning bolts that ha d obviously been hurled by a second sister. And above the 
clockface, itself above her head, a crowned king and queen knelt before an Amyrlin Seat in her enameled stole, 
with the Flame of Tar Valon, carved from a large moonstone, atop a golden arch over her head. 
She did not laugh often, but she c ould not help a quietly pleased chuckle at the clock. Cemaile 
Sorenthaine, raised from the Gray, had commissioned it dreaming of a return to the days before the Trolloc 
Wars, when no ruler held a throne without the Tower's approval. Cemaile's grand plans came to naught, 
however, as did Cemaile, and for three centuries the clock sat in a dusty storage room, an embarrassment no one 
dared display. Until Elaida. The Wheel of Time turned. What was once, could be again. Would be again. 
The case clock balanced the door to her sitting r oom, and her bedchamber and dressing room beyond. 
Fine tapestries, colorful work from Tear and Kandor and Arad Do-man, with thread-of-gold and thread-of-silver 
glittering among the merely dyed, hung each exactly opposite its  mate. She had always liked order. The carpet 
covering jnost of the tiles came from Tarabon, patterned in red and green and gold; silk carpets were the most 
precious. In each corner of the room a marble plinth carved in unpretentious verticals held a white vase of 
fragile Sea Folk porcelain with two dozen carefully arra nged red roses. To make roses bloom now required the 
One Power, especially with the drought and heat; a worthwhile use, in her opinion. Gilded carving covered both 
the only chair—no one sat in her presence now—and the wr iting table, but in the st ark style of Cairhien. A 
simple room, really, with a ceiling barely two spans high, yet it would do until her palace was ready. With the 
view, it would. 
The tall chairback held the Flame of Tar Valon picked out in moonstones above her dark head as she sat. 
Nothing marred the polished surface of the table except for three boxes of Altaran lacquerwork, arranged just 
so. Opening the box covered with golden hawks among white  clouds, she removed a slim strip of thin paper 
from atop the pile of reports and correspondence inside. 
For what must have been the hundredth tune, she read the .message come from Cairhien by pigeon 
twelve days ago. Few in the Tower knew of its existen ce. None but she knew its c ontents, or would have a 
glimmer of what it meant if they did. The thought almost made her laugh again. 
 
The ring has been placed in the bull's nose. I expect a pleasant journey to market. 
 
No signature, yet she needed none. Only Galina Casban had known to send that glorious message. 
Galina, whom Elaida trusted to do what she would have tr usted to no one else save he rself; Not that she trusted 
anyone fully, but the head of the Red Ajah more than any other. She herself had been raised from the Red, after 
all, and in many ways still thought of herself as Red. 
 
The ring has been placed in the bull's nose. 
 
Rand al'Thor—the Dragon Reborn, the man who had s eemed on the point of swallowing the world, the 
man who had swallowed entirely too much of it—Rand al'T hor was shielded and in Galina's control. And none 
who might support him knew. Even a chance of that, and the wording would have b een different. By various 
earlier messages, it seemed he had rediscovered how to Travel, a Talent lost to Aes Sedai since the Breaking, 
yet that had not saved him. It had even played into Galina's hands. Apparently he had a habit of coming and 
going without warning. Who would suspect that this time he had not gone, but been taken? Something very like 
a giggle rose in her.